Hyde will come back and there's video we're looking at making requests.
The last video was quite long.
Apologies for that.
And also we have a lot of information that was talking there for 25 minutes.
And I appreciate it may get a bit boring and it probably didn't really clear out all your doubts and
that's totally fine.
In this video we're going to be looking at making those requests and hopefully cleaning out a bit more
of the doubts that you may have in order to make requests using Python.
We need a library called requests.
We can solve that very easily.
If you open up the terminal on Mac or the get bash on Windows and then type up install requests if you
type that if you are in Windows and if you're a Mac you may have to do three point five install requests
so let's do that and then it'll install and Mike is already installed.
So it says requirement already satisfied but if you don't have it already installed and it will install
and then that's it.
Then let's open up the idea early and make sure you're opening up ideally version three point five.
So I'm going to go ahead and hear make sure that when you open up ideally you see Python three point
five point one of the top and then import requests.
And that if that works then you're fine.
If you get an error then please ask a question in the course forums.
Hopefully it won't happen but it may.
Once that's done we now can use this library to do requests.
Now I've said what a request is in the lecture.
Essentially the request is doing get the DP version to w w w dot example dot com and what that is is
.
Please get me.
W w w dot.
Example dot com using HTTP version 2.
Unfortunately if we do that it doesn't work in Python.
But what does work is.
Requests don't get.
So we're using the requests library there and we're going to perform a get request and then inside the
brackets of the GET request we need to put in what uniform Leto's identifier we want to get.
So in this case w w w dot example dot com and we are going to need in the front page of.
So here is the P colon slash slash.
What was left was last w w w dot exampled dot com.
When we do that we get this.
This is an object of type response and it has the code 200 at the end.
When talking about haste TTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol the code 200 is the most common code on the
internet and it means everything worked OK.
And here you have the content of your page.
In this case double double dot example dot com.
So I'm going to show you quickly what that page looks like.
No it looks like this.
This is an example domain.
W w w dot example dot com.
And we aren't requesting that using a GET request to what we did was requests library.
I'm going to call the get method that lives inside you and the you are right.
The Uniform Resource identifier but I won't request is Hastey P colon slash slash.
That tells us that we're using hates d w w w dot exampled Ockham.
We did that on the request as liberty gave us back in response object which contains the page and a
code 200 which tells us everything is OK.
There's a lot of other code we may be looking into some of those.
However because we did not assign this to a variable we have no way of accessing that.
So let's let's assign that were variable.
R equals request.
Get into dippie example Dockum.
OK now we don't get anything back because of the contents of that went into the variable.
Or we've haven't used ideally for a while.
But please bear with me for now.
So if we type our.
Now we should expect to see this coming out right.
Yes OK so what other things can we do with our.
Apart from seeing that it worked well.
We can who are not content and that gives us a bunch of stuff and if we've never looked at page DML
before then this is Chinese.
But it has some some structure here.
For example we've got page 1 example domain.
Each one and then HDMI with that means is a big header header One is the largest sort of title that
you can have and the forward slash each one just closes the header.
So what does he say in his big header example domain.
Close the big head to we go back to safari.
We see that example domain is indeed a header I'm going to write an example domain and go to inspect
element.
And you may not have that in Safari unless you enable the develop toolbar in the system in the preferences
of Safari.
If you're using Google Chrome that should be there.
And then when we do that we get this nice window down here with no one to really worry about what is
all of this.
But just know that the example domain is ahead or one there.
So what we know is that the request did get this page successfully.
So once again to recap these requests don't get what it is doing.
Is this thing here.
The server that is hosting W.W. for example dot com knows that when somebody performs a get request
it has to return this code here.
So when we made that get request up here the server received our request which looks like that and said
Okay I know how to do and how to deal with this and I'm going to return this content here.
So that's what it did.
And then the browser knows that this content here is HDMI code so it can render it it can display it
nicely like this.
But naturally Python doesn't have a HDMI renderer.
So what we get back is just the code and that's fine.
So that is how we make a get request using Piscean if we wanted to do a post request.
Well you can take a guess as to how you might go about doing that.
I'm sure you're going to request top post and then here we would put the you Arel the Uniform Resource
Locator uniform Wieters identifier both similar.
And then we can send that some data.
If you under the POST request was used for example to do some authentication and we can send in and
data related to the usual That will authenticate him for example.
But in this case we don't have a website to do a post request on.
So we're just going to leave that now something else I wanted to show you in this video is the Twitter
rest API.
So let's go back to Safari and go in here.
The you are real for this is Dave dot dot dot com slash vest slash public.
And what that'll do is it will essentially show you this page here.
And what we have is the public API the the sort of methods the ways that Twitter gives us to interact
with it.
So there's a few for example get status is slash user timeline.
You would expect that to get the tweets posted to your timeline.
You have state to see slasher retreats of me you have things like get searched last tweets you can get
direct underscore messages.
There's a lot of things here.
And all of them are reasonably self-explanatory if you've used Twitter before but if not you can press
on it and it kind of tells you what it is about returns the 20 most recent direct messages sent to the
authenticating user.
That's you by the way.
OK.
So we have here the Twitter API documentation.
It tells us what the API is how it works how we can interact with it and so on.
So here I have this resource you are Rayle which is what we can request using our requests library.
Let's copy that and then go back to idealy and do our equals requests don't get and put that in.
Now what do you think is going to happen when I do this.
Am I missing something.
And if so what.
Some of you may have realized that something that's naturally missing from that is the users that were
getting direct messages for remember the server is stateless.
It doesn't know who I am.
So even though I'm logged in here in Twitter the server does not know who I am.
So if I just do a get request for direct messages the server is going to be like a very good messages
for you.
So we need to send the information regarding the user that is requesting this.
That is in the API the authenticating user.
If we do this him it seems to work and then we do our and then we get response 400.
In this case.
So if we do our content we get this and it has a code 2 1 5 and the message is bad authentication data
.
Yes we didn't log in.
So Twitter doesn't know who we are.
We're requesting messages for a user that's not logged in users that are not locked in don't have messages
because they don't have an account.
So that is not going to work.
And I wanted to show you this because in order to get direct messages or other information from Twitter
we need to first logon to Twitter and in order to do that we need to look at all off the open authorization
format that we looked at in the last view and the lecture towards the end.
So in the next video I apologize again we're going to be looking quickly at what on earth is and how
we can log in with Twitter.
And then we're going to be implementing that in Python.
So a bunch of theory in these first few videos.
Please deal with deal with it.
Bear with me because it is really important to understand how EPA work and it's really important to
know how things like Twitter Facebook Google Plus and so on have their inner workings so that you can
then log in with them and interact with those.
So without further ado I'll see you in the next video and we're going to be looking at all Warth